# svm_ga
Improving support vector machine using genetic algorithm

### Summary ###
Climate change by greenhouse gas concentration is the leading cause of disruption in global ecosystems. Studies demonstrate the potential reduction in environmental damage by technological innovation and the use of renewable energy sources. Artificial Intelligence has become an increasingly popular solution to apprehend the impact of energy consumption on the environment. Support Vector Machine (SVM) is a predictive AI model that is applied to solve real-life classification and regression problems. It can efficiently find global solutions while determining maximum margins between separate categories. This research aims to develop an SVM model to predict CO2 emissions using time series data. For this purpose, datasets that contain the UK’s historical energy consumption and fossil fuel CO2 emissions are combined. The preliminary analysis by linear regression, and Pearson correlation coefficient shows the substantial influence on CO2 level by fuel source attributes. This work further explores the genetic algorithm (GA)’s capability for feature engineering to select appropriate attributes. The algorithm inspired by the natural reproduction system involves random selection, competition, and reproduction processes.This optimization enables the model to lower the level of key performance indices and to effectively predict the UK’s emissions. For this work, Jupyter Notebook is the selected development environment as it allows instant interaction while the work progresses. Pandas, NumPy, and scikit-learn, which provide extensive libraries written in Python language are also used. These are essential tools to facilitate data manipulation and require minimal coding for development. This article focuses on single-model development; however, a comparison study with multiple models can be an excellent future project to investigate the GA optimizer's effectiveness.

